Grammar and reference manual improvements (#1071)
dafny-lang/dafny: docs/DafnyRef/Types.md

}
```

Dafny also overloads the `+` and `-` binary operators for maps.

> The `+` operator merges two maps of the same type, as if each

Author: Clarified

> (key,value) pair of the RHS is added in turn to the LHS map.

Author: Done

The `-` operator implements a map difference operator. Here the LHS

> is a `map<K,V>` and the RHS is a `set<K>`; the operation removes

Author: Clarified

[Section 20.10](#sec-as-expression).)

Dafny supports a built-in subset type, namely the type `nat`,
whose base type is `int`. Type `nat`
designates the non-negative subrange of `int`.  A simple example that
puts subset type `nat` to good use is the standard Fibonacci
function:
```dafny
function Fib(n: nat): nat
{
  if n < 2 then n else Fib(n-2) + Fib(n-1)
}
```
An equivalent, but clumsy, formulation of this function (modulo the
wording of any error messages produced at call sites) would be to use
type `int` and to write the restricting predicate in pre- and
postconditions:
```dafny
function Fib(n: int): int
  requires 0 <= n  // the function argument must be non-negative
  ensures 0 <= Fib(n)  // the function result is non-negative
{
  if n < 2 then n else Fib(n-2) + Fib(n-1)
}
```

TODO: I think the following is false, or at least should be.

Type inference will never infer the type of a variable to be a
subset type.  It will instead infer the type to be the base type
of the subset type.  For example, the type of `x` in
```dafny
forall x :: P(x)
```
will be `int`, even if predicate `P` declares its argument to have

> type `nat`.

Reviewer: You are right. This is false. I suggest removing it. (Type inference will never infer a subset type out of thin air, but it will try to infer subset types when the arguments of an expression are. Sometimes, it will give up on that, too, in which case it goes to the base type. But I think these details are not helpful to a user, so I don't think anything else needs to be said.)

Author: Gone

<!--PDF NEWPAGE-->
# 12. Newtypes {#sec-newtypes}
````grammar
NewtypeDecl = "newtype" { Attribute } NewtypeName "="
  [ ellipsis ]
  ( LocalIdentTypeOptional
    "|"
    Expression(allowLemma: false, allowLambda: true)
    [ "ghost" "witness" Expression(allowLemma: false, allowLambda: true)
    | "witness" Expression((allowLemma: false, allowLambda: true)
    | "witness" "*"
    ]
  | Type
  )
  [ TypeMembers ]
````

> A newtype is like a type synonym except that it declares a wholly new type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A newtype is like a type synonym or subset type except that it declares a wholly new type
```

Author: OK, though I think of a subset type as one kind of type synonym

can be inferred from `Q`, the "`: M`" can be omitted.  If `Q` is just
`true`, then the declaration can be given simply as:
```dafny
newtype N = M
```
Type `M` is known as the _base type_ of `N`. At present, Dafny only supports
`int` and `real` as base types of newtypes.

A newtype is a type that supports the same operations as its
base type.  The newtype is distinct from and incompatible with other
types; in particular, it is not assignable to its base type
without an explicit conversion.  An important difference between the
operations on a newtype and the operations on its base type is that
the newtype operations are defined only if the result satisfies the
predicate `Q`, and likewise for the literals of the
newtype.

For example, suppose `lo` and `hi` are integer-based numerics that
satisfy `0 <= lo <= hi` and consider the following code fragment:
```dafny
var mid := (lo + hi) / 2;
```
If `lo` and `hi` have type `int`, then the code fragment is legal; in
particular, it never overflows, since `int` has no upper bound.  In
contrast, if `lo` and `hi` are variables of a newtype `int32` declared
as follows:
```dafny

> newtype int32 = x | -0x80000000 <= x < 0x80000000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
newtype int32 = x | -0x8000_0000 <= x < 0x8000_0000
```

Author: Done

results of the newtype's operations are members of the newtype, a
compiler for Dafny is free to specialize the run-time representation
of the newtype.  For example, by scrutinizing the definition of
`int32` above, a compiler may decide to store `int32` values using
signed 32-bit integers in the target hardware.

The incompatibility of a newtype and its basetype is intentional,
as newtypes are meant to be used as distinct types from the basetype.
If numeric types are desired that mix more readily with the basetype,
the subset types described in [Section 11.3](#sec-subset-types)
 may be more appropriate.

Note that the bound variable `x` in `Q` has type `M`, not `N`.
Consequently, it may not be possible to state `Q` about the `N`
value.  For example, consider the following type of 8-bit 2's
complement integers:
```dafny
newtype int8 = x: int | -128 <= x < 128
```
and consider a variable `c` of type `int8`.  The expression
```dafny
-128 <= c < 128
```
is not well-defined, because the comparisons require each operand to
have type `int8`, which means the literal `128` is checked to be of
type `int8`, which it is not.  A proper way to write this expression

> would be to use a conversion operation, described in [Section 12.1](#sec-conversion), on `c` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is to use a conversion operation, described in [Section 12.1](#sec-conversion), on `c` to
```

Author: OK

convert it to the base type:
```dafny
-128 <= c as int < 128
```

If possible, Dafny compilers will represent values of the newtype using

> a native data type for the sake of efficiency. This action can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a native type for the sake of efficiency. This action can
```

Author: OK

be inhibited or a specific native data type selected by
using the `{:nativeType}` attribute, as explained in
[Section 22.1.12](#sec-nativetype).

There is a current restriction that the value `0` must be part of every

> numeric newtype.

Reviewer: This is no longer true. The `witness` clause is used to override this.

Author: Removed
